Revert endorsement and reference triple records to original (#268)
ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim: draft-ietf-rats-corim.md

is by default the CoRIM signer. If a different entity is authorized to provide measurement values,
the `authorized-by` statement can be supplied in the `measurement-map`.

An environment may have multiple measurements of the same type.

> Measurement keys may be used to disambiguate these measurements.

Reviewer: WFM, but another way to put this (which I find more intuitive) is to say that an environment can be composed of multiple individually measured "elements."

I think "element" is the piece of vocabulary we were missing before Dionna proposed it in #257, allowing speaking about multiplicity more naturally.

Quoting from #257:
```
An environment has one or more measured elements.
Measured elements are distinguished from each other by the `measurement-map` key.
A measured element can have a dedicated measurement, such as a security version number.
Multiple elements could be combined into a single measurement, such as a running hash of multiple files.
A measured element can also have several measurement values, such as a name, version, and digest.
Measurements can have class, instance or group scope.
A `measurement-map`'s scope is determined by the `environment-map` it is paired with.
```

~~~ cddl
{::include cddl/measurement-map.cddl}
~~~

The following describes each member of the `measurement-map`:

* `mkey` (index 0): An optional measurement key.
 See {{sec-comid-mkey}}.

* `mval` (index 1): The measurements associated with the environment.
 Described in {{sec-comid-mval}}.

* `authorized-by` (index 2): The cryptographic identity of the individual or organization that is
 the designated authority for this measurement. For example, the producer of the measurement or a delegate.

###### Measurement Keys {#sec-comid-mkey}

> Measurement keys are locally scoped identifiers that disambiguate multiple instances of measurements of the same type.

Reviewer: It could be that, but it could also be they serve as "element" identifiers.

Reviewer 2: Agree with Thomas, in the latest commit, I have added this aspect, please have a look!

is by default the CoRIM signer. If a different entity is authorized to provide measurement values,
the `authorized-by` statement can be supplied in the `measurement-map`.

An environment may have multiple measured elements.
Measured elements are distinguished from each other by measurement keys.
Measurement keys may be used to disambiguate measurements of the same type originating from different elements.

~~~ cddl
{::include cddl/measurement-map.cddl}
~~~

The following describes each member of the `measurement-map`:

* `mkey` (index 0): An optional measurement key.
 See {{sec-comid-mkey}}.

* `mval` (index 1): The measurements associated with the environment.
 Described in {{sec-comid-mval}}.

* `authorized-by` (index 2): The cryptographic identity of the individual or organization that is
 the designated authority for this measurement. For example, the producer of the measurement or a delegate.

###### Measurement Keys {#sec-comid-mkey}

Measurement keys are locally scoped identifiers.
`Mkey` values may be necessary to disambiguate multiple measurements of the same type.

> `Mkey` identifiers can be either OID, UUID or uint.

Reviewer: `mkey` is an extensible type.  This aspect should be highlighted.

Reviewer 2: Have added a line as suggested by Thomas!

is by default the CoRIM signer. If a different entity is authorized to provide measurement values,
the `authorized-by` statement can be supplied in the `measurement-map`.

An environment may have multiple measured elements.
Measured elements are distinguished from each other by measurement keys.
Measurement keys may be used to disambiguate measurements of the same type originating from different elements.

~~~ cddl
{::include cddl/measurement-map.cddl}
~~~

The following describes each member of the `measurement-map`:

* `mkey` (index 0): An optional measurement key.
 See {{sec-comid-mkey}}.

* `mval` (index 1): The measurements associated with the environment.
 Described in {{sec-comid-mval}}.

* `authorized-by` (index 2): The cryptographic identity of the individual or organization that is
 the designated authority for this measurement. For example, the producer of the measurement or a delegate.

###### Measurement Keys {#sec-comid-mkey}

Measurement keys are locally scoped identifiers.

> `Mkey` may be necessary to disambiguate multiple measurements of the same type.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`mkey` may be necessary to disambiguate multiple measurements of the same type.
```

Alternatively, `Mkey` may also be used to  distinguish multiple measured elements in an environment.

> `Mkey` identifiers can be either OID, UUID or uint. `Mkey` is an extensible type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Mkey` is an extensible identifier. The initial types defined are OID, UUID, and uint.
```

> `Mkey` identifiers can be either OID, UUID or uint. `Mkey` is an extensible type.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`mkey` identifiers can be either OID, UUID or uint. `Mkey` is an extensible type.
```

> `Mkey` is an extensible identifier. The initial types defined are OID, UUID, and uint.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`mkey` is an extensible identifier. The initial types defined are OID, UUID, and uint.
```

### Internal Representation of Conceptual Messages {#sec-ir-cm}

Conceptual Messages are Verifier input and output values such as Evidence, Reference Values, Endorsed Values, Appraisal Policy, and Attestation Results.

> The internal representation of Conceptual Messages, as well as the ACS {{sec-ir-acs}} and ARS {{sec-ir-ars}}, are constructed from a common building block structure called Environment-Claims Tuple (ECT).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The internal representation of Conceptual Messages, as well as the ACS ({{sec-ir-acs}}) and ARS ({{sec-ir-ars}}), are constructed from a common building block structure called Environment-Claims Tuple (ECT).
```

ECTs have five attributes:

1. Environment : Identifies the Target Environment. Environments are identified using instance, class, or group identifiers. Environments may be composed of elements, each having an element identifier.

2. Elements : Identifies the set of elements contained within a Target Environment and their trustworthiness Claims.

3. Authority : Identifies the entity that issued the tuple. A certain type of key material by which the authority (and corresponding provenance) of the tuple can be determined, such as the public key of an asymmetric key pair that is associated with an authority's PKIX certificate.

4. Conceptual Message Type : Identifies the type of Conceptual Message that originated the tuple.

> 5. Profile : The profile that defines this tuple. If no profile is used, this attribute is omitted.

Reviewer: Purely typographic comment: there are structural elements that can be used to assemble an enumeration/definition list, rather than doing it by hand.  E.g.:

```
{: vspace="0"}
Environment:
: Identifies ...

Elements:
: Identifies ...
```

or

```
{:my-enum: style="format %d."}

{: my-enum}
* Environment: Indicates ...
* Elements: Indicates ...
```

The advantage is that rendering in the supported output formats (TXT, HTML, PDF) is taken care of automatically - and, hopefully, also optimally.

Author: Fixed in commit https://github.com/ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim/pull/268/commits/7a01ca689f4013783ba5138c0d80232214e3976b

: The profile that defines this tuple. If no profile is used, this attribute is omitted.

The following CDDL describes the ECT structure in more detail.

~~~ cddl
ECT = {
  ? environment: environment-map

>   ? properties: [ + properties-map ]

Reviewer 2: Given that `ECT` is an acronym for `Environment Claims Tuple`: I would rename line 1604 on the right to 

? iclaims: [+internal-claims-map]

&

Line 1610 to be:
internal-claims-map = {
? eid: element-id
claims: measurement-values-map
}

Author: I keyed off of the existing prose that describes it as properties. I don't think we need to bow to the consistency gods by changing ECT to EPT since the main focus is still on claims. In other words, the measurement-values-map contents are still the "claims". 

I find it easier to write the prose if the structures are all the same but with slight modification. 

Given we now describe environments as consisting of zero or more elements. It may be appropriate to name `properties-map` to `element-map` then the contents of an element-map is the element-id and the claims `claims-map`.

Reviewer 2: Works for me and I admit a very sensible suggestion.

~~~ cddl
ECT = {
  ? e: environment-map
  ? c: [ + local-claim ]
  ? a: [ + $crypto-key-type-choice ]
  ? ns: text
  ? cm: cm-type
  ? p: $profile-type-choice
}
local-claim = {
  ? eid: element-id
  c: claims-map
}

> element-id =  bstr / tstr / uint / tagged-oid-type / tagged-uuid-type

Author: Note: element-id could go back to being bstr / tstr if the mapping from external to internal describes a mapping from uint, tagged-oid-type and tagged-uuid-type to bstr.

> element-id =  bstr / tstr / uint / tagged-oid-type / tagged-uuid-type

Reviewer: the typographical convention for closed type choices is `NAME-type-choice`, so this should look like:

```
element-id-type-choice /= bstr
element-id-type-choice /= tstr
element-id-type-choice /= uint
element-id-type-choice /= tagged-oid-type
element-id-type-choice /= tagged-uuid-type
```

Reviewer: Clarifying question: are you suggesting avoiding using the typographical conventions in S3 for CDDL related to internal representation?
If so, I think it'd be better to keep the conventions and use an ad hoc prefix/suffix/infix for internal, e.g.: `__`, like in good old C :-)

Author: We agreed to define the internal representation of element ID to match the external representation and to add wording to the effect that element IDs are compared in a byte for byte approach.

Author: Fixed in commit: https://github.com/ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim/commit/0d82b15fffd8cef5d09f4747e5e45bed8dd1caf6

~~~ cddl
ECT = {
  ? e: environment-map

>   ? c: [ + local-claim ]

Reviewer 2: Line 1583 which describes the claims needs to be:
1. Reworded with a more appropriate name, like a set of claims 
2. Needs to explain better, regarding the claims pertaining to each of the measured elements belonging to a target environment

Author: Fixed in commit: https://github.com/ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim/pull/268/commits/59fd80d9894bf52b9a6718d9339d6548c238ee9f

]
~~~

> | Type | `en` | `el` | `a` | `cm` | `p` |

Reviewer: The shorthand convention doesn't seem to be defined anywhere.  OK, it's not completely unintuitive :-) but can't we use the unabbreviated labels?

All of the extracted and validated tags are loaded into an *appraisal context*.
The Appraisal Context contains an internal representation of the inputted Conceptual Messages.
The selected tags are mapped to an internal representation, making them suitable for appraisal processing.

[^issue] https://github.com/ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim/issues/96

> #### Reference Triples Tranformation {#sec-ref-trans}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Reference Triples Transformation {#sec-ref-trans}
```

> An available `rv` list entry {{sec-ir-ref-val}} is allocated.

Reviewer: This (and similar instances below) will render as:
```
An available rv list entry Section 8.2.1.2 is allocated.
```
which is not great.

Please wrap all the references to sections in parentheses so that it reads like:
```
An available rv list entry (Section 8.2.1.2) is allocated.
```

The Reference Values Triple {{sec-comid-triple-refval}} `environment-map` is copied to the `environment-map` for both the `rv` `condition` and `rv` `addition` ECTs.

For each `measurement-map` entry in the measurements list, the i<sup>th</sup> `measurement-map` is copied to the i<sup>th</sup> `element-map` in the `elements` list of the `rv` `addition` ECT.

The issuer of the Endorsement conceptual message is copied to the `ev` `addition` ECT authority field.

If the Endorsement conceptual message has a profile, the profile is copied to the `ev` `addition` ECT profile field.

#### Endorsement Triples Tranformations {#sec-end-trans}

Endorsement Triple Transformation :

: An available `ev` entry {{sec-ir-end-val}} is allocated.
The Endorsement Triple {{sec-comid-triple-endval}} `environment-map` is copied to the `environment-map` for both the `ev` `condition` and `ev` `addition` ECTs.

: For each `measurement-map` entry in the measurements list, the i<sup>th</sup> `measurement-map` entry is copied to the i<sup>th</sup> entry in the `addition` ECT `elements` list.

: The issuer of the Endorsement conceptual message is copied to the `ev` `addition` ECT authority field.

> : If the Endorsement conceptual message has a profile, the profile is copied to the `ev` `addition` ECT profile field.

Reviewer: What is the typographical intent here?

If this is an algorithm, use enumerations (maybe custom ones, like I described in a comment above).

Anonymous definition lists doesn't look like the right tool for the job.

Author: custom enumerations are new to me. I have to play around with it.

Reviewer: You could do:

```
{:algo-steps: counter="bar" style="format Step %d."}

{:algo-steps}
* An available `rv` list entry {{sec-ir-ref-val}} is allocated.
The Reference Values Triple {{sec-comid-triple-refval}} `environment-map` is copied to the `environment-map` for both the `rv` `condition` and `rv` `addition` ECTs.
* For each `measurement-map` entry in the measurements list, the i<sup>th</sup> `measurement-map` is copied to the i<sup>th</sup> `element-map` in the `elements` list of the `rv` `addition` ECT.
* The issuer of the Endorsement conceptual message is copied to the `ev` `addition` ECT authority field.
* If the Endorsement conceptual message has a profile, the profile is copied to the `ev` `addition` ECT profile field.
```

which is rendered as:
```
   Step 1.  An available rv list entry Section 8.2.1.2 is allocated.
            The Reference Values Triple Section 5.1.4.2 environment-map
            is copied to the environment-map for both the rv condition
            and rv addition ECTs.

   Step 2.  For each measurement-map entry in the measurements list, the
            i^th measurement-map is copied to the i^th element-map in
            the elements list of the rv addition ECT.

   Step 3.  The issuer of the Endorsement conceptual message is copied
            to the ev addition ECT authority field.

   Step 4.  If the Endorsement conceptual message has a profile, the
            profile is copied to the ev addition ECT profile field.
```

Conditional Endorsement Triple Transformation :

> Conditional Endorsement Series Triple Transformation :

Reviewer: Are these TODOs (in which case, we should mark them explicitly and link to their associated issues)?  Or did you just forget to add the content?

Reviewer: OK; stick a `[^issue] https://github.com/ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim/issues/XYZ` nearby then.

## Reference Values Corroboration and Augmentation (Phase 3) {#sec-phase3}

> Reference Value Providers (RVP) publish Reference Values using the Reference Values Triple {{sec-comid-triple-refval}} which are transformed {{sec-ref-trans}} into an internal representation {{sec-ir-ref-val}}. Reference Values may describe multiple possible Attester states.

Reviewer: parentheses deficiency syndrome :-)

Reference Value Providers (RVP) publish Reference Values triples that are matched against ACS entries.
Reference Values may describe multiple acceptable states for Attesters; hence "matching" determines that Evidence (contained in the ACS) satisfies an appropriate subset of the available Reference Values.

If the appropriate subset matches, the authority of the RVP is added to the appropriate ACS entries.

The Verifier compares each `rv` reference value condition ECT against ECT entries in the ACS as described in {{sec-match-one-se}}.

> Foreach entry in the `rv` list, if any part of an `rv` condition does not match an ACS entry, then the entire `rv` additon is not added to the ACS.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For each entry in the `rv` list, if any part of an `rv` condition does not match an ACS entry, then the entire `rv` addition is not added to the ACS.
```

Reference Value Providers (RVP) publish Reference Values triples that are matched against ACS entries.
Reference Values may describe multiple acceptable states for Attesters; hence "matching" determines that Evidence (contained in the ACS) satisfies an appropriate subset of the available Reference Values.

If the appropriate subset matches, the authority of the RVP is added to the appropriate ACS entries.

> The Verifier compares each `rv` reference value condition ECT against ECT entries in the ACS as described in {{sec-match-one-se}}.

Reviewer 4: The referenced section is not properly named for what this is needed to match all mkey/mval pairs

"Processing a stateful environment against the Appraisal Claims Set {#sec-match-one-se}"

Author: The corroboration section removed the reference to sec-match-one-se for now.
The wording now says "... ECTs are identical...". There should be a section that describes how two ECTs are compared. Once that section is complete, a reference to it can be added here.
